---
layout: post
title: Thirty
category: posts
tags : Tech
---

Life is essentially a cheat and its conditions are those of defeat [and] the redeeming things are not “happiness and pleasure” but the deeper satisfactions that come out of struggle. - Scott F Fitzgerald

I turned thirty last week. Thought I'd be interesting to capture my current sense of being. A la "state of mind", if you will. Obviously, take this with a laddle full of salt. Most of it is probably just my personality and some of it just circumstantial.

Thirty is not old, but it's definitely not young. No one here after will refer to me as young man as I'd heard every alternate hour, a few years ago. It sounds a bit morose, but it isn't. I've heard people say that 20's is the best decade, but I don't agree. I really enjoyed my 20's, but given an option between living from this moment on or starting over from my 20th birthday, I'd no doubt pick the former. 

It's silly, but one thing I used to worry when I was 23 was that I won't (or shouldn't) go to clubs in my 30s. I worried that I won't be able to enjoy my  <a href="https://open.spotify.com/user/123544547/playlist/1JfP7FUMUcXmhXbSkCvwR3">music</a> as I did back then. Fast forward 7 years, THANK GOD I don't like to go to clubs anymore. It's probably one of the worst experiences one could ever have while paying so much - especially in New York City. I still enjoy the music and it's been replaced with loud music on good speakers in my living room while cooking. Sometimes while sipping a beer. I look forward to see if that is the case with most age related things we all worry about. Things like looks, physical agility, money, sanity and a sense of belonging. 
What choice do we have anyway?

My roller coaster cart is starting to slow down and I finally feel like I can make some time to write again.
Kristina and I moved away from New York in October of last year thinking we would never live in New York again. We endured enough of the miserable winters. We picked Austin and off we went. We sold everything we owned, except for 5 boxes and 2 suitcases and we went. We moved back to New York after exactly 4 months of living in Austin. Not because we didn't like Austin, in fact we've scoped Austin as a place we might eventually end up in. I got offered a job at Google and I couldn't say no. Thankfully, my lovely supportive wife agreed and here we are. We ended up staying at 5 different places during the round-trip including my bother's for a couple of weeks and a temporary place for 2 months after we were back in New York city.


<h2>Work</h2>

In my first week at Google, I read an internal post by someone describing Google as a 'deeply magical place'. He made a very logical reason for why he thought so, but I couldn't help but think that this guy was addicted to the cool-aid prick. I'm 6 months into the job and I can't help but think that Google is a deeply magical place. This deserves a post on it's own, so I won't go into the details here but I'll say this much - almost all work related problems I have right now are all 'first world problems', and if I ever genuinly complain, I give full liberty to the humility fairy to smack me on the head and put me back in my place. 

I think I have a fairly good idea about what is important for me at work. No, it's not about learning the next cool language, as soon as possible. It's more modest than that. Find things to do I find interesting. Have the courage to strech myself as much as possible but not take myself too seriously. Easier said than done.


<h2>Body<h2>
I feel pretty good about my body. I still give a 100% every workout every day. But I notice my body is taking longer to recover. I can't think of doing two workouts a day during the weekends anymore. Maybe it is my body, but maybe it's just that my head has not been in the right place. Since we moved so many places over the last year, I haven't been able to commit to a goal to focus on. I'd like to think that it was a blessing in disguise cause I have discovered track sprint training, Rocket Yoga and core strengethering body weight stuff which I wouldn't have focused otherwise. Staying physically fit was much easier when having a routine. 

My mindfullness practice has been a total game changer in the last year. A lot less auto-pilot and therefore a lot more living with purpose. Meditation has calmed the mind and brough clarity amongst the brain chatter. It has allowed to me to visualize what I need, reason why and silently go get it. I am quite far away from any sought of sustained stability but I like where this is going. 

<h2>Relationships<h2> 
Nothing makes me more happy than being beside special K. I'm cognizant these won't be the first things on our minds when we are 70. Our old person body smell will probably be the least of our worries but just like 
I try and avoid spending time with people I don't like and be around my friends. Conversations with my closest friends over a meal or a picnic with friends in the park. 

<quote>
“We act as though comfort and luxury were the chief requirements of life. All that we need to make us happy is something to be enthusiastic about.” - Albert Einstien 
</quote>

The overarching feeling is a sense of extreme thanks. 

Extreme thanks for being at the right place at the right time. No more is a feeling of looking for happiness (atleast not conciously) or a goal to "be happy". Feel like I am already there. The finish line is behind me, and everything I could have ever known to ask for, I already have. 
   
---




